SUMO-238261 - Mitigating preview query charges for Flex Pricing (#4133)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/manage/partitions/flex/flex-pricing-faq.md

## Is the Flex pricing available to existing Cloud Flex customers?

> No, it is not available for the existing customers. Flex will become available for existing customers in the near future. Currently, Flex Licencing is the default plan for new customers who sign up with Sumo Logic.

Author: ```suggestion
No, it is not available for the existing customers. Flex will become available for existing customers in the near future. Currently, Flex Licencing is the default plan for new customers who sign up with Sumo Logic. 
```

## Is the Flex pricing available to existing Cloud Flex customers?

> No, it is not available for the existing customers. Flex will become available for existing customers in the near future. Currently, Flex Licencing is the default plan for new customers who sign up with Sumo Logic.

Author: ```suggestion
No, it is not available for the existing customers. Flex will become available for existing customers in the near future. Currently, Flex Licencing is the default plan for new customers who sign up with Sumo Logic. 
```

We recommend you configure partitions to have less than 5 TB per day flowing into them. This practice:

* Reduces the cost of each query.
* Results in faster queries, since less data has to be scanned. 

## How are preview queries charged?

While the current impact is minimal, preview queries, such as those displayed during creation or monitoring processes, may incur charges depending on the context. For instance, during monitor creation, a query may run automatically to display data, potentially resulting in charges for the queried period. Although these charges are typically negligible, they can affect cost optimization.

> To avoid unnecessary charges, consider implementing user-initiated query execution. In scenarios like the Alert Response Page (ARP) and Emulate search, preview queries may incur repetitive charges. Optimizing these processes can help reduce costs and enhance user experience.

Reviewer: Didn't understand "consider implementing user-initiated query execution" and "Optimizing these processes". How would users do this?

Author: Hi @tarunk2 , great catch! Here's a revised paragraph. Is there anything users can do to avoid these charges?

To mitigate potential unnecessary charges, consider <!-- placeholder -->. In scenarios like the Alert Response Page (ARP) and Emulate search, preview queries may incur repetitive charges. <!-- Optimizing these processes can help reduce costs and enhance user experience. -->

Reviewer: Not really. Since charges are going to be negligible, there is nothing users can do to turn them off at this moment.

Author: Thank you for the clarification! Reduced this just to one sentence. What do you think? https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation/pull/4133/files

Reviewer: Looks good now, thanks!

Author: sweet - thank you so much for your help with this

> To avoid unnecessary charges, consider implementing user-initiated query execution. In scenarios like the Alert Response Page (ARP) and Emulate search, preview queries may incur repetitive charges. Optimizing these processes can help reduce costs and enhance user experience.

Author: ```suggestion
To mitigate potential unnecessary charges, consider <!-- ? -->. In scenarios like the Alert Response Page (ARP) and Emulate search, preview queries may incur repetitive charges. Optimizing these processes can help reduce costs and enhance user experience.
```

We recommend you configure partitions to have less than 5 TB per day flowing into them. This practice:

* Reduces the cost of each query.

> * Results in faster queries, since less data has to be scanned.  

Author: ```suggestion
* Accelerates queries, as less data has to be scanned.
```

When partitions are marked as included and `_index`/`_view` is not referenced in the query, all the included partitions will be considered for the search query by default. Default scope can also come into use when `AND` or `OR` conditions are referred to in the query with `_index`. For example, consider you have three partitions namely, Partition A (Excluded), Partition B (Included), and Partition C (Included). Below are some scenarios:

- When you run the query without referring to `_index`, for example `error | count`, only Partition B and Partition C will be considered for the query, as Partition A is excluded from the default scope. 
- When you run a query referring to an index term, for example `_index="Partition A"`, only Partition A will be considered for the query. 
- Similarly, when you refer to multiple index terms, for example `_index="Partition A" OR _index="Partition B"`, only Partition A and Partition B will be considered for the query. 

> - However, when you run the query, for example `_index="Partition A" OR error`, all of the partitions (Partition A, Partition B, and Partition C) will be considered for the query, because the error keyword might be present in Partition B or C as well. So in cases like this, we need to scan all three of them.

Author: ```suggestion
- However, when you run the query, for example `_index="Partition A" OR error`, all of the partitions (Partition A, Partition B, and Partition C) will be considered for the query. This is because the error keyword might be present in Partition B or C as well. So in cases like this, we need to scan all three of them.
```
